Draft: Secret Storage feature and solutions (#764)
tkhq/docs: features/secrets.mdx

{
  "policyName": "Only the payments agent can export credit cards",
  "effect": "EFFECT_ALLOW",
  "consensus": "approvers.any(u, u.tags.contains('payment-agent'))",
  "condition": "activity.type == 'ACTIVITY_TYPE_EXPORT_SECRETS' && secret.static_properties['kind'] == 'credit-card'"
}
```

Property keys and values are strings end-to-end, so policy conditions use string comparisons (e.g. `secret.static_properties['requires-consensus'] == 'true'`).

<Warning>
  Secrets are immutable: static properties cannot be changed after creation. Creating a replacement secret does not cryptographically revoke the original, so never plan to *reduce* a secret's permissions by re-creating it with fewer properties. Grant narrowly up front.
</Warning>

## Importing a secret

The `importSecret` method in [`@turnkey/sdk-server`](/sdks/typescript-sdk) and [`@turnkey/core`](/sdks/typescript-sdk) handles the full flow — initializing the ingress key, verifying the enclave signature, encrypting, and submitting:

```typescript
const secretId = await turnkey.apiClient().importSecret({
  plaintext: JSON.stringify({ number: "4242...", exp: "11/29", cvv: "123" }),
  name: "corporate-visa",
  staticProperties: {

>     kind: "credit-card",

Author: camel case everywhere

Author: Done in a556cd86 — creditCard / requiresConsensus everywhere, including the policy examples and the solution page.

---
title: "Secret Storage"
description: "Import, store, and export arbitrary secrets — passwords, credit cards, API keys — with policy-gated, end-to-end encrypted access."
---

import { FeatureCard } from '/snippets/feature-card.mdx'
import { SolutionCard } from '/snippets/solution-card.mdx'

> Turnkey Secrets lets you store arbitrary sensitive data — passwords, credit card details, API keys, SSNs — encrypted end-to-end between your client and Turnkey's [secure enclaves](/security/secure-enclaves). Every export is evaluated by the [policy engine](/features/policies/overview), so you control exactly who can retrieve a secret, under what conditions, and with how many approvals.

Author: Add sentence "The secret storage API was designed for maximum flexibility and programability."

Author: Added in a556cd86 (spelled "programmability").

Plaintext only ever exists inside the enclave and on the client that imported or exported it. Turnkey's coordinator, database, and public API only ever see ciphertext.

## How it works

**Import**: Turnkey mints a single-use ingress target key inside the enclave, signed by the enclave's quorum key. Your client verifies that signature, encrypts the secret to the target key using HPKE, and submits the ciphertext. The enclave decrypts it, re-encrypts it for storage at rest under a quorum-key-derived key, and deletes the ingress key.

> **Export**: your client generates an ephemeral P-256 keypair and submits the public key with the export request. After policy evaluation approves the request, the enclave decrypts the stored secret and re-encrypts it to your key. Only the holder of the ephemeral private key can decrypt the result — the export payload is useless to anyone else, including any approvers.

Author: Add something to indicate the configurable target key provides the flexibility that the keys does not necessarily need to be held by any of the approvers

Author: Done in a556cd86 — export paragraph now states the target key is fully configurable and the recipient need not be an approver.

**Import**: Turnkey mints a single-use ingress target key inside the enclave, signed by the enclave's quorum key. Your client verifies that signature, encrypts the secret to the target key using HPKE, and submits the ciphertext. The enclave decrypts it, re-encrypts it for storage at rest under a quorum-key-derived key, and deletes the ingress key.

**Export**: the export request carries an ephemeral P-256 target public key, and after policy evaluation approves the request, the enclave decrypts the stored secret and re-encrypts it to that key. The target key is fully configurable: it can belong to the requester, to another agent or service, or to a party that isn't an approver at all — whoever holds the private half is the only one who can decrypt the result. The export payload is useless to anyone else, including the approvers themselves.

> Both directions use single-use target keys, so a compromised key never exposes more than one payload.

Author: remove this

Author: Removed in c23d395f — already covered by the forward-secrecy bullet in the security model.

> For a batch export, Ump evaluates one policy unit per secret. The batch succeeds only if every unit returns `ALLOW`; a `DENY` or any unit without an `ALLOW` outcome, including when no allow policy matches, rejects the entire batch. No secrets are partially exported.

Author: ```suggestion
For a batch export, the request succeeds only if every policy evaluation returns `ALLOW`; a `DENY` or any evaluation without an `ALLOW` outcome, rejects the entire batch. No batches are partially exported.
```

Author: Applied in 4e10c0a2 (branch squashed to one commit).

```json
{
  "policyName": "Only the payments agent can export credit cards",
  "effect": "EFFECT_ALLOW",
  "consensus": "approvers.any(u, u.tags.contains('payment-agent'))",
  "condition": "activity.type == 'ACTIVITY_TYPE_EXPORT_SECRETS' && secret.static_properties['kind'] == 'credit-card'"
}
```

Property keys and values are strings end-to-end, so policy conditions use string comparisons (e.g. `secret.static_properties['requires-consensus'] == 'true'`).

<Warning>
  Secrets are immutable: static properties cannot be changed after creation. Creating a replacement secret does not cryptographically revoke the original, so never plan to *reduce* a secret's permissions by re-creating it with fewer properties. Grant narrowly up front.

> </Warning>

Author: remove warning

Author: Removed in a556cd86.

> Property keys and values are strings end-to-end, so policy conditions use string comparisons (e.g. `secret.static_properties['requiresConsensus'] == 'true'`).

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: Applied in 4e10c0a2 (branch squashed to one commit).

## Importing a secret

The `importSecret` method in [`@turnkey/sdk-server`](/sdks/typescript-sdk) and [`@turnkey/core`](/sdks/typescript-sdk) handles the full flow — initializing the ingress key, verifying the enclave signature, encrypting, and submitting:

```typescript
const secretId = await turnkey.apiClient().importSecret({
  plaintext: JSON.stringify({ number: "4242...", exp: "11/29", cvv: "123" }),
  name: "corporate-visa",
  staticProperties: {
    kind: "credit-card",

>     "requires-consensus": "true",

Author: use camelCase here for consistency

Author: Done in a556cd86 — corporateVisa.

  },
});
```

For sensitive material you want wiped from memory after encryption, pass a `Uint8Array` instead of a string — the SDK zeroizes the buffer once the ciphertext is produced.

> Under the hood this calls [init_import_secrets](/api-reference/activities/init-import-secrets) and [import_secrets](/api-reference/activities/import-secrets); both are available directly for batch imports.

Author: ```suggestion
Under the hood this calls [init_import_secrets](/api-reference/activities/init-import-secrets) and [import_secrets](/api-reference/activities/import-secrets).
```

Author: Applied in 4e10c0a2 (branch squashed to one commit).

## Exporting a secret

`exportSecret` generates the ephemeral keypair, submits the export activity, decrypts the result, and zeroizes the key — a single call when policy allows the caller to export unilaterally:

```typescript
const plaintext = await turnkey.apiClient().exportSecret({
  secretId,
});
```

> If the export requires additional approvals, `exportSecret` throws a consensus-needed error. For multi-party flows — including multiple agent instances co-signing the same export with session keys — use the proposal API described in [Programmable Credential Manager](/solutions/key-management/programmable-credential-manager).

Author: ```suggestion
If the export requires additional approvals, `exportSecret` throws a consensus-needed error. For multi-party flows — including multiple agent instances co-signing the same export with session keys — use the proposal sdk helpers described in [Programmable Credential Manager](/solutions/key-management/programmable-credential-manager).
```

Author: Applied in 4e10c0a2 (branch squashed to one commit).

## Listing secrets

> [list_secrets](/api-reference/queries/list-secrets) returns metadata only — IDs, names, static properties, and creation timestamps. It never returns ciphertext or cryptographic material:

Author: ```suggestion
[list_secrets](/api-reference/queries/list-secrets) returns metadata: IDs, names, static properties, and creation timestamps:
```

```typescript
const { secrets } = await turnkey.apiClient().listSecrets({});
```

## Multi-party approval

Because export is an activity, it composes with everything the policy engine supports: [consensus](/features/policies/overview) across durable users, tag-based approver requirements, and [root quorum](/features/users/root-quorum). Model browser and payment agent roles as separate Turnkey users, then use session keys to authenticate their ephemeral instances. Policy can require both roles to approve before a credit card leaves the enclave — while the payload stays encrypted to only one instance. This makes credential delegation easy to model without treating each ephemeral agent instance as a separate user.

## Security model

> - **End-to-end encryption**: plaintext exists only in enclave memory (zeroized after use) and on your client. Transport in both directions uses HPKE to single-use P-256 target keys.

Author: ```suggestion
- **End-to-end encryption**: plaintext exists only in enclave memory and on your client. Transport in both directions uses HPKE to single-use P-256 target keys.
```

Author: Applied in 4e10c0a2 (branch squashed to one commit).

- **Authenticated storage**: at-rest ciphertext is AES-256-GCM under a per-secret key derived from the enclave quorum key, with the organization, secret ID, and cipher suite bound into the authenticated data — ciphertext cannot be substituted across secrets or organizations.
- **Signed provenance**: every stored secret and ingress key is signed by the enclave quorum key; enclaves refuse anything they didn't produce.
- **Forward secrecy**: ingress and egress target keys are single-use. Compromising one exposes at most one payload.

> - **Full auditability**: every import, export, and approval is an activity — attributable to the durable agent-role user and authenticating session key, logged, and queryable.

Author: ```suggestion
- **Full auditability**: every import, export, and approval is an activity — attributable to the authenticating credential, logged, and queryable.
```

Author: Applied in 4e10c0a2 (branch squashed to one commit).

## Next steps

<div style={{display: 'grid', gridTemplateColumns: 'repeat(2, 1fr)', gap: '12px'}}>
  <SolutionCard title="Programmable Credential Manager" icon="encryption-key-storage" href="/solutions/key-management/programmable-credential-manager" description="Policy-gated credential access for humans, services, and AI agents — including multi-agent consensus." />
  <FeatureCard title="Policy Engine" icon="file-shield-02" href="/features/policies/overview" description="Gate secret export on identity, static properties, approval counts, and tags." />
  <FeatureCard title="Secure Enclaves" icon="cpu-chip-01" href="/security/secure-enclaves" description="How Turnkey protects secrets inside hardware-backed enclaves." />

>   <FeatureCard title="Import Secrets API" icon="upload-01" href="/api-reference/activities/import-secrets" description="API reference for the secrets import flow." />

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: Applied in 4e10c0a2 (branch squashed to one commit).
